All right, here we are at the end of this
section about good old press relations.
I want to leave you with some closing thoughts on
your efforts to get coverage, so here's some tips you
can write down, memorize, or frame and put on
the wall - if you do that, please send me a photo.
First off, get to know the people
you pitch before you pitch them.
Data has shown it helps.
Something like two thirds of the editors out there
are more likely to give pitches a look when they
come from people they know or have at least had some
notable interaction with. But engaging with writers
and bloggers isn't just a benefit for
when you want to pitch them.
Getting to know them can give you a lot more insight
about your industry, your competitors, and the concerns
customers might have.
So think of it as market research
and press outreach all in one.
Now, secondly, get in the habit of being helpful.
* Help me. Help me. Help me help you. *
* Help me help you. * A few of these tactics I discussed
involve you doing things that don't immediately benefit
you, but instead help others.
Doing surveys and polls for reporters, answering
questions for people on Reddit and Quora, or replying
to writers' Twitter chats and posts.
These are all ways of participating in the
conversations out of those social platforms.
While you might be trying to reach specific writers
and reporters, remember there are plenty of lurkers
out there in the audience, people who might be
interested, but less willing to participate. When they see
someone like you chiming in with helpful information,
suddenly you've become someone worth following,
engaging with, and asking questions of. You can become
a source or an influencer just by being
helpful and sharing what you know.
Now, the whole Twitterverse and
social world is bigger than you.
There's a lot of people out there trying to get something
and you can help in many ways that can eventually
lead to wins for you. When it comes to making contact,
keep everything short and personalized in your pitches.
Reporters have limited time and attention to give you,
because of their busy jobs, and because they're
getting dozens, if not hundreds of pitches just like yours.
Be direct, offer value, and treat them like human
beings, and not just as a way to get free marketing.
Remember, those ideas about being helpful and getting
to know them, well, if you're doing these things,
it'll make your pitches that much better, because you'll
know what your reporters like, what they want, and
ways you can help them out.
And lastly, none of this is going to work 100% of the
time. Listen, PR is going to be a numbers game, and
you might be in a situation where you just suck at
writing pitch emails at first, and even at first maybe
you're picking the wrong reporters,
reporters that really aren't very helpful.
PR is really a skill that with experience you will get
exponentially more effective at. This advice,
these tips I've offered, these can
get you part of the way there.
Now, there's no reason, with what we've covered,
you can't get your first one or two articles written
about you, that is more than enough to get you your
first 500 customers.
However, if you want to increase your odds and make it
such that you don't have to spend enormous amounts
of time getting these things in the future, well,
you're really going to have to
practice and build experience.
Now, applying these tips, trying them out, and adapting
them to your own situation, and then looking for
new opportunities we didn't even discuss here,
well, that's going to be on you. If you can stick
with it and build on whatever success you get, then
yeah, you'll do fine.
Now, you might reach a point where you're spending
a lot of time and effort on PR efforts or your business
has grown and you need some bigger
guns help you promote things.
Now, perhaps, in that situation, you'll need to invest
in a PR agency or a PR freelancer. Now, PR agencies
can be great, because they already have a lot of contacts
you're trying to engage with and get noticed by,
so you essentially skip that step of finding the people you care
about and then getting them to actually recognize your name.
So the question then becomes, why wouldn't
you go this route from the very beginning?
Well, because PR agencies can be really, really expensive.
They usually charge you a monthly retainer and they
devote a certain number of hours to your cause.
And, by the way, working with an agency does not even
guarantee you coverage, they're trying, just like you
are, to make the right connection.
It's just that usually they have more experience and
they have a lot more warm connections. Oftentimes,
in the very beginning, when you have a lot
of free time, or at least your time is cheap,
sometimes I see people, they'll hire a PR agency, and
then after the fact, once the PR agency charged them
thousands and thousands of dollars for one article, they looked
at what they did and said, "Wow, I could have done that."
So when should you consider a PR agency? If your
business is at a point where it makes sense to get press
coverage so it can grow,
well, you might be ready. If you're doing lots of marketing
and outreach, well, if your product or service
is doing decently well, and if you could easily describe
it to customers, and they actually get what it
is you're trying to do, well, that's a great start. If your
business is growing in terms of customers, employees,
and making money, and you feel like it's the right
time to grow or scale things up even more,
well, at that point it might be the time, because PR is
a really big time suck. Now, certainly, you can make
contact with an agency and get their thoughts,
but I might also recommend talking to other people who are
using agencies to get their read on how helpful they are.
If you select an agency you want,
that's the first thing I usually do is I ask for the
people they've worked with and to include them
as references, then I can talk to those
people and say, "Hey, was this even worth it
from your perspective?" You've got to remember at the end of the
day these people are also salespeople, so if you say, "Should
I use you?" they're not going to say no.
However, if you're just starting out with PR, well, you have
plenty of time before you get to thinking about an agency.
Just keep these tips and ideas in mind,
go back to the lectures if you need to, and
remember to be helpful along the way.
It's really a great mindset to get into if you're
hoping people will help you in return.
All right, guys, good luck and God speed.
See you in the next section.